README.md, before:

# ShowerTunes

## Executive Summary
Listening to music in the shower has become the latest hobby for music enthusiasts. More online can you find products for suction-cup Bluetooth speakers to put in your bathroom. It requires a consumer to charge the speaker, turn it on, sync with their phone and put in the shower, but what if there was a way to automatically sync the speaker with your phone when taking a shower without having to touch your phone?  
This is where ShowerTunes comes in. Using a Metawear device as a temperature sensor in the bathroom, you can reach a baseline degree reading and start playing music on the Bluetooth speaker.

## Project Goals
* Set up Metawear CPRO model to monitor and send temperature to a mobile android app

* Design app for android phone to receive temperature information and display in user-friendly interface

* Monitor temperature on the mobile app such that when heat reaches a certain threshold and the Bluetooth speaker is in range, to send tunes to the speaker

* Have mobile app stop playing music in the bathroom when temperature levels reach below a certain threshold

* Design app in a way that a specific song is played when proper parameters are met

## User Stories
1. As a music listener, I want to sync with a Bluetooth speaker in the bathroom so I can listen to music while bathing.

    * **Acceptance Criteria:**  
        *  A user will be able to easily connect to a generic Bluetooth speaker and play a song on the speaker.
2. As a lazy person, I want to listen to music via my Bluetooth speaker while bathing without having to manually sync everything up beforehand.
    * **Acceptance Criteria:**
        *  A user will be able to play their music on their Bluetooth speaker without having to fiddle with their android phone. 
3. As a stressed individual, I want to listen to music via my Bluetooth speaker while bathing to help relieve stress.
    * **Acceptance Criteria:**
        * A user will not need to frustratingly set up and connect their android phone to their speaker beforehand. They may simply just start the water and wait for temperature to rise. 

## Misuser Stories
1. As a Bluetooth hacker, I want to create a man-in-the-middle attack between the speaker and phone to collect any information I can find. 
    * **Mitigation:**
        * Manually turn off speaker after each use.
        * Update all devices to latest manufacturer standards/protocols available


2. As a Bluetooth hacker, I want to  eavesdrop between any Bluetooth communications to find potentially vulnerable information. 
    * **Mitigation:**  
        * Only use Bluetooth devices that are updated to latest Bluetooth protocols that have handled this issue.
        * Only have Bluetooth devices turned on when desired
        * Turn off Bluetooth on Android phone when not using Bluetooth with other devices.  

3. As a prankster, I want to connect to the Bluetooth speaker and mess with the volume settings to cause issues to the victim.
    * **Mitigation:**
        * Manually turn off speaker after each use. 

## High Level Design
![Diagram](https://i.imgur.com/6xC0pLY.jpg)

## Component List
### CPRO Metawear 

The CPRO will act as the temperature sensor to sit in the restroom. The device will constantly track temperature information and send that to a synced android application with the mobile app installed to interpret temperature information. 

### Android Application

The Android application will connect via Bluetooth to the CPRO Metawear and generic Bluetooth speaker. It will track the temperature the CPRO will send, and when temperature degree is past a certain threshold, along with being synced to the Bluetooth speaker, the app will send a signal to the speaker. The signal will tell the Bluetooth speaker to play music from a local file on the phone or applied with the application.

### Generic Bluetooth Speaker

The Bluetooth speaker will be the output that presents the ShowerTunes. It will play whatever music is sent to it from the Android phone it is synced to.   


## Security Analysis
| Component name | Category of vulnerability | Issue Description | Mitigation |
|----------------|---------------------------|-------------------|------------|
| CPRO Metawear<br> Android Phone/App,<br> Bluetooth Speaker | Eavesdropping | A third party not supposed to be involved in the connection(s) is able to place themselves in the middle and passively watch messages being exchanged. | Ban any devices that use Bluetooth 1.x, 2.0, or 4.0-LE and the devices are using the latest versions and protocols. |
| Android Phone and Bluetooth Speaker | Man-in-the-Middle Attack | A malicious user can intercept the connection(s) between the Android phone/app and send forged pairing messages. | Update hardware/firmware/software on the android phone to latest standards from the manufacturers. Turn off Bluetooth when not in use.
| Bluetooth Speaker | Denial of Service | A malicious user can crash and drain the battery of the Bluetooth speaker and block any phone calls via this attack. | Manually turn off Bluetooth when not using it. |
| Metawear CPRO | Information Disclosure | The Metawear device, since it is a 'just works' device, can potentially disclose private information that is visible to others. In this case, the sensor will tell the phone the current humidity in the bathroom. If a third party discovers this, they may pick up when the user is in the bathroom and use this information to break into the user's place of residence. | Try to make connection with Android phone and Metawear device private and secured. Don't let the CPRO be visible to other devices after paired.  

## User Story Realization
* User story 1: "As a music listener, I want to sync with a Bluetooth speaker in the bathroom so I can listen to music while bathing".  

* User story 2: "As a lazy person, I want to listen to music via my Bluetooth speaker while bathing without having to manually sync everything up beforehand"  

* User story 3: "As a stressed individual, I want to listen to music via my Bluetooth speaker while bathing to help relieve stress."  

From the above described user stories, most of the configuration and coding for the Bluetooth speaker has been achieved. This was achieved with libraries such as [BluetoothAdapter](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/bluetooth/BluetoothAdapter), [BluetoothDevice](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/bluetooth/BluetoothDevice), [BluetoothManager](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/bluetooth/BluetoothManager), [BroadcastReceiver](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/content/BroadcastReceiver), and [MediaPlayer](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/media/MediaPlayer) among others. At this time, the metawear portion still needs to be fully written and tested, but the app is at a point where it can fulfill the user stories. Where the app is now, when opened, it will listen and wait for connection with the Bluetooth speaker, and when turned on and connected, will start playing a local song. 

I'm crossing my fingers the demo section goes well.

Commit message:

Added some instructions
Instructions for installing, hardware/software requirements, and getting started.

README.md, after:

# ShowerTunes

## Executive Summary
Listening to music in the shower has become the latest hobby for music enthusiasts. More online can you find products for suction-cup Bluetooth speakers to put in your bathroom. It requires a consumer to charge the speaker, turn it on, sync with their phone and put in the shower, but what if there was a way to automatically sync the speaker with your phone when taking a shower without having to touch your phone?  
This is where ShowerTunes comes in. Using a Metawear device as a temperature sensor in the bathroom, you can reach a baseline degree reading and start playing music on the Bluetooth speaker.

## Project Goals
* Set up Metawear CPRO model to monitor and send temperature to a mobile android app

* Design app for android phone to receive temperature information and display in user-friendly interface

* Monitor temperature on the mobile app such that when heat reaches a certain threshold and the Bluetooth speaker is in range, to send tunes to the speaker

* Have mobile app stop playing music in the bathroom when temperature levels reach below a certain threshold

* Design app in a way that a specific song is played when proper parameters are met

## User Stories
1. As a music listener, I want to sync with a Bluetooth speaker in the bathroom so I can listen to music while bathing.

    * **Acceptance Criteria:**  
        *  A user will be able to easily connect to a generic Bluetooth speaker and play a song on the speaker.
2. As a lazy person, I want to listen to music via my Bluetooth speaker while bathing without having to manually sync everything up beforehand.
    * **Acceptance Criteria:**
        *  A user will be able to play their music on their Bluetooth speaker without having to fiddle with their android phone. 
3. As a stressed individual, I want to listen to music via my Bluetooth speaker while bathing to help relieve stress.
    * **Acceptance Criteria:**
        * A user will not need to frustratingly set up and connect their android phone to their speaker beforehand. They may simply just start the water and wait for temperature to rise. 

## Misuser Stories
1. As a Bluetooth hacker, I want to create a man-in-the-middle attack between the speaker and phone to collect any information I can find. 
    * **Mitigation:**
        * Manually turn off speaker after each use.
        * Update all devices to latest manufacturer standards/protocols available


2. As a Bluetooth hacker, I want to  eavesdrop between any Bluetooth communications to find potentially vulnerable information. 
    * **Mitigation:**  
        * Only use Bluetooth devices that are updated to latest Bluetooth protocols that have handled this issue.
        * Only have Bluetooth devices turned on when desired
        * Turn off Bluetooth on Android phone when not using Bluetooth with other devices.  

3. As a prankster, I want to connect to the Bluetooth speaker and mess with the volume settings to cause issues to the victim.
    * **Mitigation:**
        * Manually turn off speaker after each use. 

## High Level Design
![Diagram](https://i.imgur.com/6xC0pLY.jpg)

## Component List
### CPRO Metawear 

The CPRO will act as the temperature sensor to sit in the restroom. The device will constantly track temperature information and send that to a synced android application with the mobile app installed to interpret temperature information. 

### Android Application

The Android application will connect via Bluetooth to the CPRO Metawear and generic Bluetooth speaker. It will track the temperature the CPRO will send, and when temperature degree is past a certain threshold, along with being synced to the Bluetooth speaker, the app will send a signal to the speaker. The signal will tell the Bluetooth speaker to play music from a local file on the phone or applied with the application.

### Generic Bluetooth Speaker

The Bluetooth speaker will be the output that presents the ShowerTunes. It will play whatever music is sent to it from the Android phone it is synced to.   


## Security Analysis
| Component name | Category of vulnerability | Issue Description | Mitigation |
|----------------|---------------------------|-------------------|------------|
| CPRO Metawear<br> Android Phone/App,<br> Bluetooth Speaker | Eavesdropping | A third party not supposed to be involved in the connection(s) is able to place themselves in the middle and passively watch messages being exchanged. | Ban any devices that use Bluetooth 1.x, 2.0, or 4.0-LE and the devices are using the latest versions and protocols. |
| Android Phone and Bluetooth Speaker | Man-in-the-Middle Attack | A malicious user can intercept the connection(s) between the Android phone/app and send forged pairing messages. | Update hardware/firmware/software on the android phone to latest standards from the manufacturers. Turn off Bluetooth when not in use.
| Bluetooth Speaker | Denial of Service | A malicious user can crash and drain the battery of the Bluetooth speaker and block any phone calls via this attack. | Manually turn off Bluetooth when not using it. |
| Metawear CPRO | Information Disclosure | The Metawear device, since it is a 'just works' device, can potentially disclose private information that is visible to others. In this case, the sensor will tell the phone the current humidity in the bathroom. If a third party discovers this, they may pick up when the user is in the bathroom and use this information to break into the user's place of residence. | Try to make connection with Android phone and Metawear device private and secured. Don't let the CPRO be visible to other devices after paired.  

## User Story Realization
* User story 1: "As a music listener, I want to sync with a Bluetooth speaker in the bathroom so I can listen to music while bathing".  

* User story 2: "As a lazy person, I want to listen to music via my Bluetooth speaker while bathing without having to manually sync everything up beforehand"  

* User story 3: "As a stressed individual, I want to listen to music via my Bluetooth speaker while bathing to help relieve stress."  

From the above described user stories, most of the configuration and coding for the Bluetooth speaker has been achieved. This was achieved with libraries such as [BluetoothAdapter](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/bluetooth/BluetoothAdapter), [BluetoothDevice](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/bluetooth/BluetoothDevice), [BluetoothManager](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/bluetooth/BluetoothManager), [BroadcastReceiver](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/content/BroadcastReceiver), and [MediaPlayer](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/media/MediaPlayer) among others. At this time, the metawear portion still needs to be fully written and tested, but the app is at a point where it can fulfill the user stories. Where the app is now, when opened, it will listen and wait for connection with the Bluetooth speaker, and when turned on and connected, will start playing a local song. 

## Installation Instructions

### Hardware Requirements  
* Android Phone running Android 9.0
* MetaWear Device with temperature sensor
* Generic Bluetooth Speaker  

### Software Requirements
* Android Studio

### Getting Started
1. Install Android Studio on available PC
2. Go to [Github](https://github.com/skyemakable/ShowerTunes/tree/codestuff) repository for ShowerTunes  

    * If Github Desktop is avilable on available PC, select to open in Desktop.
    *  Else, download ZIP of repo. Extract files to desired location on PC. Skip to step 4.
3. On Github Desktop, make sure the 'codestuff' branch is the current branch, and select to fetch origin. Select to show in Explorer (or the equivalent for a Mac machine).

4. Copy contents of address bar in the explorer window and copy contents (Ex: C:\Documents\GitHub\ShowerTunes\app). 

5. Open Android Studio, File -> Open. In the search bar, paste the what was copied from the address bar and click OK. 

6. Navigate to app -> java -> com.example.mbientlab.showertunes -> MainActivity

7. Where comments present on lines 40-42, edit the addresses for available MetaWear device, Bluetooth Speaker, and chosen threshold (note: bounds is for Celsius). 

8. Click the play icon to install APK on Android phone (have Android phone connected )

9. Turn on Bluetooth speaker and insert battery into MetaWear device. Wait until threshold is met.
